{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Auditory Experiment
\b0 \
\

\b - Experimental Set-up -\

\b0 Flies were introduced to the three tile arena and allowed to explore for 60 seconds with all tiles at 22\'b0C. After that the middle tile remained comfortable and the side tiles were heated to 34\'b0C. This created a pole position (PP) phase and lasted 60 seconds. After the PP a trial phase started and lasted another 60 seconds. The trial phase consisted of a side tile and the middle tile heating up to 40\'b0C and a side tile remaining safe at 22\'b0C. The safe side tile that was safe was indicated by a red LED light on at the start of the trial phase and  lasting the whole phase corresponding to the safe location (LED1 or the left one if the left tile was safe or LED2 or the right one if the right tile was safe).\
\
Each experiment consisted of 60 phases: 30 PP followed by 30 trials. The whole process was video recorded. The auditory stimulus was dependent on the condition the fly was in. Each tone was played at the beginning of the trial phase and was included in the 60 seconds the trial phase lasted.\

\b \
Auditory Experiment Replication\

\b0 Replication of Auditory experiment using only CS flies. NS is no sound, ST is single tone, TT is two tones. This was done before the CS and OR experiments. The indicative LEDs were used differently in that they only gave a short pulse at the start of the test phase. The right LED indicated that the right tiles was the safe one and the left LED indicated that the left tile was the safe one. 
\b \
\
Left and Right Sensitivity Curve\

\b0 Repetition of auditory experiment using different tone interval (short vs long tones):\
100ms vs 1100ms\
200ms vs 1000ms\
300ms vs 900ms  (the tones used for all other experiments)
\b \

\b0 400ms vs 800ms\
500ms vs 700ms\
600ms vs 600 ms (control with two identical tones)\
\

\b - Conditions -\
\

\b0 All conditions 
\b N=20
\b0 .
\b \
\
TT
\b0 : A short and a long stimulus was presented. The short stimulus consisted of a tone of 300ms and had the left side as the safe location during the trial phase. The left red LED (LED1) turned on at the same time as the tone started. The long stimulus consisted of a tone of 900ms and had the right side as the safe location. The right red LED (LED2) turned on.\
\

\b OT
\b0 : The same stimulus of 600ms indicated left or right safe location. The left red LED turned on in case this was the safe tile and the right red LED turned on in case this was the safe location.\
\

\b NT
\b0 : This condition had no stimulus. Nevertheless, the left red LED turned on when the fly was supposed to the go the left and the right red LED turned on in case this was the correct side. The same script used to coordinate the OT experiments was used, except that no tone was played.
\b \

\b0 \
All tones were played at 400Hz and 80dB.\

\b \

\b0 \

\b - Data Processing -\

\b0 The videos made of each fly were tracked used the 
\b TimeFlies Tracker
\b0 . The arena dimensions were the same for all the videos. An 
\i output.csv 
\i0 file was obtained with the (x,y) location of the fly the state (on, off) or the red LEDs.\
\
Arena dimensions: x-axis: 281 - 1058; y-axis: 343-586\
\
The output.csv file was run through Matlab script 
\b TrackerAnalysis_V14_181516.m
\b0 . This script separated the files in phases and allowed multiple variables to be calculated. This variables are indicated inside the script. To control for possible errors in the tracking of the red LEDs the script disregards LEDs turned on for less than 100 frames. It also includes a correction in case the LED is off for a few frames, adding it to the next phase. \
\

\b - Files naming -\

\b0 TT_CS/OR_number: Condition with short and long stimulus. The CS indicates that the flies used were Canton-S wild-type; OR indicates that the flies used were Oregon-R wild-type.\
\
OT_CS/OR_number: Condition with neutral stimulus. The CS indicates that the flies used were Canton-S wild-type; OR indicates that the flies used were Oregon-R wild-type.\
\
NT_CS/OR_number: Condition without stimulus. The CS indicates that the flies used were Canton-S wild-type; OR indicates that the flies used were Oregon-R wild-type.\
\
All experiments used virgin females.}