{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11640\viewh10340\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Visual Experiment
\b0 \
\

\b - Experimental Set-up -\

\b0 Flies were introduced to the three tile arena and allowed to explore for 60 seconds with all tiles at 22\'b0C. After that the middle tile remained comfortable and the side tiles were heated to 34\'b0C. This created a pole position (PP) phase and lasted 60 seconds. After the PP a trial phase started and lasted another 60 seconds. The trial phase consisted of a side tile and the middle tile heating up to 40\'b0C and a side tile remaining safe at 22\'b0C. The safe side tile that was safe was indicated by a blink of a red LED light corresponding to the safe location (LED1 or the left one if the left tile was safe or LED2 or the right one if the right tile was safe). The duration of the red LED was the same as that of the visual stimulus presented, which depended on the experimental condition the fly was in.\
\
Each experiment consisted of 60 phases: 30 PP followed by 30 trials. The whole process was video recorded.\
\
The visual stimulus was presented through an LED screen (8x32) on one of the the long axis of the arena. The colour of the stimulus was pure green, as reported by previous experiments on fly visual conditioning. The other three sides of the arena were covered with a black screen to prevent possible distractors. \

\b \

\b0 \

\b - Conditions -\
\

\b0 All conditions 
\b N=20
\b0 .
\b \
\
TL
\b0 : A short and a long visual stimulus was presented. The short stimulus consisted of a blink of 300ms and had the left side as the safe location during the trial phase. The left red LED (LED1) turned on during this blink to indicate the type of trial. The long stimulus consisted of a blink of 900ms and had the right side as the safe location. The right red LED (LED2) turned on during this blink to indicated the type of trial.\
\

\b OL
\b0 : The same stimulus of 600ms indicated left or right safe location. The left red LED turned on in case this was the safe tile and the right red LED turned on in case this was the safe location.\
\

\b NL
\b0 : This condition had no visual stimulus. Nevertheless, the left red LED turned on when the fly was supposed to the go the left and the right red LED turned on in case this was the correct side. The same script used to coordinate the OL experiments was used, except that the LED screen that projected the visual stimulus was removed from the arena, turned upside down and covered with cardboard, avoiding all possible leaking of light from it.
\b \

\b0 \
Left red LED short blink (300ms): on for 8-10 frames.\
Right red LED long blink (900ms): on for 26-28 frames.\
Left or right red LED during non informative blink (600ms): on for 16-19 frames.\

\b \

\b0 \

\b - Data Processing -\

\b0 The videos made of each fly were tracked used the 
\b TimeFlies Tracker
\b0 . The arena dimensions were the same for all the videos. An 
\i output.csv 
\i0 file was obtained with the (x,y) location of the fly the state (on, off) or the red LEDs.\
\
Arena dimensions: x-axis: 281 - 1058; y-axis: 343-586\
\
The output.csv file was run through Matlab script 
\b TrackerAnalysis_V14_181516.m
\b0 . This script separated the files in phases and allowed multiple variables to be calculated. This variables are indicated inside the script. To control for possible errors in the tracking of the red LEDs the script disregards LEDs turned on for less than 5 frames or more than 200 frames. It also includes a correction in case the LED is off for one frame, adding it to the next phase. \
\

\b - Files naming -\

\b0 TL_CS/OR_number: Condition with short and long stimulus. The CS indicates that the flies used were Canton-S wild-type; OR indicates that the flies used were Oregon-R wild-type.\
\
OL_CS/OR_number: Condition with neutral stimulus. The CS indicates that the flies used were Canton-S wild-type; OR indicates that the flies used were Oregon-R wild-type.\
\
NL_CS/OR_number: Condition without stimulus. The CS indicates that the flies used were Canton-S wild-type; OR indicates that the flies used were Oregon-R wild-type.
\b \
\

\b0 All experiments used virgin females.}